What's up, everybody? In this lecture we're going to talk about where ideas come from as a product manager
So as a Product Manager your entire job revolves around deciding what you need to do next.
This requires a list of possible features to build and also a method of deciding which of those is the
most important.
Now, later on in the course we're going to talk about prioritization features and epics, which you'll learn about,
but for now we're just going to need to focus on getting that list of features in the first place.
So where do ideas come from?
Where is the top of the funnel for the product manager in terms of what you might build in the future?
Well, I want to start by saying that any company you work for as a product manager is going to have a
long list of requests and feature ideas that need to be developed.
If this is not the case then you should feel really lucky.
Even if you do have a really big list of stuff that needs to be built, there's always going to be instances
where new ideas come in and take precedence over existing ones based on things like user feedback volume,
what the competition is doing, etc.
All right.
So let's go ahead and assume you're a product manager at a new company and there's already a few things
your company says you need to build with your team,
but you also want to make sure there's plenty of
other ideas in the backlog to think about and develop after that.
Where do you get these ideas?
Despite popular belief, the product management job is not about being the idea guy or idea girl.
Ideas and requests come from everywhere and you need to collect and organize them as a Product Manager.
Feature ideas and requests usually come from four main places that we can easily remember using an acronym
that is EMUC.
So let's go through each one of those.
Let's start with E - employees.
This is just ideas coming in from your coworkers,
management, and you yourself.
The second one is M and it stands for metrics.
This is just problems and inefficiencies you find when you're looking into how users use your product.
For example, I may be looking at some data on how users navigate through an app and I might notice that
a lot of people just spend one second on a particular area and immediately go somewhere else.
Well, that might give me the idea that this is an unclear section of the app and we need to do some
sort of redesign or at least go figure out
what's going on and then try to fix it.
All right, so now let's move on to U which is users.
This is user feedback from forums or emails to your company or yourself and social media. It's just everyone
out there that uses your product.
So last one is C - clients, and this is a special case that applies primarily to product managers that
are business to business, because it's not always the case that a user is the same as a client, a client
meaning the person that paid for the product.
So depending on what type of product manager you are,
the importance and volume of requests may change.
Do you remember the three types of product management roles?
Consumer product manager, internal tools product manager, and business to business product manager.
Let's do three examples really quickly of the PM types and where the ideas might come from.
So if you're an internal product manager, most of the ideas are probably going to be coming from your
primary stakeholders, which are your coworkers
and employees that you work with.
If you're a business to consumer product manager, most requests are probably going to come from users but
you should also look for problems and metrics and listen to new ideas from fellow coworkers, especially management.
Now, if you're a business to business product manager, it means you're working on a product that is being sold to other companies.
In this case, requests and ideas for features are going to come primarily from employees and clients.
Like I said, a user is not always the same as a customer or a client
if you're a business to business product manager,
but we will talk a little bit more about that later.
All right, let's sum it up really quick.
You're going to have ideas and feedback coming in from all sorts of places, depending on the type of product manager you are.
Some of the volume of feedback is going to be different from those different groups, but you can remember
these groups by the acronym EMUC (employees, metrics, users, and clients or customers). Alright everyone, I will see
you in the next lecture.